MONITORING 

MONITORING TOOLS

29. What monitoring tools are you using in your project?

Answer:

Prometheus: For metrics collection.
Grafana: For visualizing metrics.
ELK Stack: For logging and search capabilities.


30. I am running 4 pods. I want to check if the memory assigned is free or not.

Answer:

bash
Copy code
kubectl top pods
This command shows the resource usage of pods, including memory and CPU.

7.Suppose an already created cluster is having performance issues. How do you troubleshoot it and optimize it?

Troubleshooting: Check cluster metrics and logs using tools like Prometheus and Grafana. Analyze resource utilization, Pod status, and node health.
Optimization: Optimize resource allocation by adjusting requests and limits, scaling Pods or nodes, and optimizing application performance. Consider upgrading hardware or reconfiguring the cluster for better performance.

What are the different metrics you were monitoring via Prometheus-Grafana?

Metrics monitored via Prometheus-Grafana include:

CPU Usage: Metrics related to CPU usage of nodes and pods.
Memory Usage: Monitoring memory consumption.
Disk I/O: Disk read/write operations.
Network Traffic: Network usage and latency.
Application Performance: Application-specific metrics, such as request rates, error rates, and latency.
Pod Status: Number of running, pending, and failed pods.
Node Health: Node availability and health status.

How did you integrate Grafana in your project?

Data Sources: Configured Prometheus as a data source in Grafana.
Dashboards: Created and customized dashboards to visualize metrics.
Alerting: Set up alerting rules in Grafana to notify on certain thresholds.
Access Control: Managed user access and permissions for Grafana.
Have you worked on any real-time tracking and gathering the data to show the dashboard?

Real-Time Tracking: Using Prometheus to collect real-time metrics from applications and infrastructure.
Dashboards: Creating Grafana dashboards to display real-time data and trends.
Alerting: Setting up real-time alerts based on collected metrics.
What is a rail transit system, I don't know anything about it, help me to understand and explain in terms of a layman.

Rail Transit System: A public transportation system that uses trains to move passengers within a city or between cities.
Components: Trains, tracks, stations, and control systems.
Benefits: Reduces traffic congestion, provides efficient and reliable transportation, environmentally friendly.
The same for the power system project which I had worked for.

Power System: A network of electrical components to generate, transmit, and distribute electricity.
Components: Power plants, transmission lines, substations, and distribution networks.
Operation: Power is generated at power plants, transmitted over long distances, and distributed to homes and businesses.
What are the cybersecurity principles you are aware of?

Confidentiality: Ensuring that sensitive information is accessible only to authorized users.
Integrity: Protecting information from being altered by unauthorized users.
Availability: Ensuring that information and resources

21. Setting Up Monitoring and Logging
Prometheus: Deploy Prometheus Operator.
Grafana: Integrate with Prometheus and set up dashboards.
Alerts: Configure Alertmanager with Prometheus for alerting.

